[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> High in the Andes in South
America sits the majestic Lake
Titicaca.
Embedded in myth,
this body of water
is unlike any other
on the planet.
This legendary lake is
12,507 feet above sea level
and is 118 miles in
length, straddling
the border of Bolivia and Peru.
According to mainstream,
before the Inca Empire,
the Tiwanaku Empire
rose to power
around this area of South
America between 550 and 950 AD.
The sacred site, now
known as Tiwanaku,
is considered one of the largest
ancient prediluvian sites
in South America.
Stretching over
two miles, this is
home to several
mysterious structures
that have puzzled researchers
and archaeologists.
There are foundations
and carvings
with powerful connections
to Easter Island.
Under the water
of Lake Titicaca,
ancient ruins remain buried
under roughly 4 to 6 feet
of silt. Megalithic stones
are scattered around the lake
as if they were
thrown like pebbles.
What was happening in
this mysterious area
long before the lake began
rising from the never
ending storms and cataclysms
during the end of the world?
>> One of the most mysterious
places in the Southern Andes
of Peru is Lake Titicaca.
This is a mysterious
lake and geologically,
it's fascinating because there
was a time that this lake was
at sea level and the
marine life, in the water,
at the time, in the
lake, was from sea level.
And when the mountain-building
episode occurred and the Andes
rose--
and this lake rose with it--
it captured whatever life was in
this area, made it into a lake,
and now that life, hundreds
of generations, thousands
of generations later,
have become unique life
forms that you don't see
anywhere else in the world.
They're their own unique
genre of life forms.
So lake Titicaca today, it sits
at 12,000 feet above sea level.
It's the highest navigable
lake in the world today.
It is a hotbed for
mysterious lights
in the skies that enter and
leave the water of the lake.
The Indigenous people say
it's their ancestors that
are coming and going.
So I'm not surprised
that it is near this lake
that we find where the most
mysterious archaeological sites
as well.
Tiwanaku-- it is a
large complex that
is made of essentially
three separate areas.
And one of the largest of these
is a platform called Pumapunku.
And it is on this
site where we find
some of the most mysterious
aspects of Tiwanaku, itself.
>> Lake Titicaca is the
highest lake in the world
and it's basically been off
limits to archaeologists.
I mean, diving in Lake Titicaca
is very dangerous business.
And it wasn't
until April of 2019
that divers were able to dive
to the bottom of Lake Titicaca
and they made some
incredible discoveries.
They found some
pre-Inca artifacts
that had been intricately
carved and they readily
recognized that
these were offerings
that were given to the lake.
To the Incas, Lake
Titicaca was supernatural.
It was mysterious.
It was a place where humans
could connect with the gods.
And the very fact that they
were ultimately and finally
able to dive down and
make this discovery
suggest that perhaps Lake
Titicaca has even more secrets
to reveal and that maybe now
is the time for those secrets
to start to unravel.
>> In the center of the Tiwanaku
complex is the Kalasasaya,
which translates
to Stopped Stones.
Within these walls
stands a monument called
Puerta del Sol, meaning
Gateway of the Sun.
The sophistication of design
around the prediluvian megalith
further promotes a knowledge and
understanding of our universe
far beyond our
current understanding.
Just in front of the Kalasasaya
is a subterranean temple named
Kantatallita, also referred
to as Temple of the Moon.
Adding more mystery to the
Tiwanaku temple complex,
the Akapana Stepped
Pyramid Mount
stands roughly 59
feet tall and appears
to have been massively destroyed
from its original shape.
Another powerful ceremonial
site right next to Tiwanaku
is Pumapunku, which translates
to Gate of the Puma.
Modern legend from
Tiwanaku is full
of tales from the Inca Empire
and how it rose to power
between 1438 to 1533.
But what about the cultures who
didn't desire to rise to power,
didn't need to call
any land their own,
the cultures who were
trying to connect
the above with the below?
How many of those
cultures have inhabited
these mysterious lands
before the Younger Dryas?
>> Tiwanaku is a
huge city, complex,
that consists of a number of
very important architectural
features.
You have this massive courtyard
known as the Kalasasaya.
And next to the
Kalasasaya, you've
got this sunken courtyard
that's orientated northwest
with these walls that have
these human heads carved
in stone as tenants, all of
them, all very different.
And this structure
is very clearly
the oldest of all
of them because it's
on a different alignment
to everything else
and may well have been present
hundreds, if not thousands,
of years before the rise of
the monuments that we see.
The problem with this is that
there was a much older culture
that occupied the site.
Their monuments are beneath
those of what we see today.
>> When we look at Tiwanaku,
we can look at it from a couple
of different perspectives,
from the architecture, itself,
and from the information
encoded into the architecture.
The architecture,
itself, is astounding.
What we find in
Tiwanaku and Pumapunku
are stones that are created
with such precision,
beyond what can be done
with machines today.
The mysterious H-shaped stones
that interlock like Legos--
each stone is created
with absolute precision.
And this was not done
with hammers and chisels,
we know this with certainty.
We begin to find joints
of these stones that
are carved or poured,
perhaps, with such precision
that you can't even slip a piece
of paper in between the joints.
And the mysterious series of
perfect 6 millimeter diameter
holes, evenly spaced
all along the stones,
suggest that these
stones may have
been used for something
even more than what we see
and use today.
They were obviously
used for an astronomical
site and astronomical marker.
And this comes into
play because when
we ask, how old is Tiwanaku?
There are many theories.
One of the theories
that was developed early
in the 20th century is that
the site, different places
within the site, are oriented
toward the sun and solstice
markers.
The problem is that it
is slightly off based
upon where the sun is today.
And if we were to realign
the sites with the sun
to make these markings as
precise as everything else,
it means that we
would have to go back
in time between 12,000 and
17,000 years before present.
Now that's
controversial in terms
of traditional archaeology.
However, it fits
perfectly into what
we're seeing in
other ancient sites,
from Egypt, and from
North America, from Caral,
in Northern Peru.
Many other sites we're talking
about prediluvian sites.
We're talking about sites that
were built during the Ice Age
or in the warming periods
within the Ice Age
that were subject to the
conditions of the ice melting
or of the torrential rains that
happen from the weather pattern
changes at the melting
of the Ice Age.
>> Tiwanaku and Pumapunku
are located in the same place
on the Altiplano of Bolivia.
They once stood right next to
Lake Titicaca, many thousands
of years ago.
Now the thing is they've
raised in elevation, hugely,
from where they probably were.
So how did this happen?
So there's a big
story that there
was some kind of
cataclysm that took place
at Tiwanaku and at Pumapunku.
And you can see this
when you go there.
You can literally
see stones are being
flung around, many of
these multi-ton stones,
probably up to 100
tons, some of them.
They'd just been
knocked out of place.
So what could have caused that?
We don't know, but it looks like
it was some kind of tidal wave,
possibly in Lake
Titicaca when there
was huge shifts in the land.
>> Viracocha, according
to local traditions,
he appears in Tiwanaku
after a global catastrophe.
Now here's the problem
with this story.
The fact is that there
are different building
methods in Tiwanaku and
it's very obvious for anyone
who's been there.
There is a very early
primordial period.
There's a second
building period.
There's a rebuilding period
as though the place has
been completely devastated
by a catastrophe,
like the whole of Lake
Titicaca just emptied
onto the city of Tiwanaku,
and someone came after it
and rebuilt it.
Now, in my understanding,
that's the moment
when Viracocha and his group
of people suddenly appear.
So he was coming back to rebuild
something that was already
established in that era.
And according to some of the
archaeological discoveries
at the area and
also the alignment
of the temple at Tiwanaku,
there is a suggestion
that the place is much,
much older than the flood.
>> Researchers of ancient
civilizations are enamored with
the idea of a lost civilization
in the Pacific, Lemuria, or Mu,
and then of course, Atlantis.
And they wonder, is it possible
that they met in Tiwanaku?
The reason for this
speculation comes
from a book published in
1945 by Arthur Posnansky,
from an archaeoastronomy
perspective.
This corresponds perfectly
with the time frame
of Plato's Atlantis story--
that Atlantis was a civilization
that existed 9,000 years
before Plato's time.
When we look around Tiwanaku, we
find incredible stone buildings
that match other stone buildings
that researchers are dating
to the Atlantean time period.
Plato expressly stated that
the Atlantean buildings were
made of red, black,
and white stone,
and that's exactly what we
find at Tiwanaku, confirming
this possibility that Tiwanaku
is an Atlantean civilization,
possibly.
Now that opens up
again this idea
that, perhaps,
the people from Mu
were able to then
travel over to Tiwanaku
and meet the Atlanteans.
And we find, therefore, a
confluence of these two highly
enigmatic civilizations.
>> Arthur Posnansky, known
for his strong personality
and exotic ideas,
was a former officer
for the Austro-Hungarian Navy,
who also worked nearly 50 years
on his archaeological
quest to uncover the truth
of the ancient Andes.
His book, "Tihuanacu-- The
Cradle of American Man,"
dates the building of
Tiwanaku to 15,000 BC.
His controversial ideas
have opened the doors
for alternative researchers
to explore the fringe
of Andean archaeology.
>> Posnansky talks about
the Kalasasaya courtyard,
in which is this very famous
monument which is known
as the Gateway of the Sun.
And what he said is that
the Kalasasaya is orientated
specifically east-west.
Nothing strange about that.
But that the corners
of the Kalasasaya
were the rising
points of the sun
at the time of the solstices.
So that's the summer solstice
and the winter solstice.
And the points that the
sun rises at solstice
changed across a
period of 41,000 years,
only by a few degrees.
And although this
might not tell us
exactly how old the structure
is that we see today,
what it tells us is
that there could well
have been a foundation
on that spot,
and that's very, very important.
Because if that's
so, that's evidence
of a lost civilization.
>> The work of Arthur
Posnansky, in the early 1900s,
put the date back
to 17,000 years.
Now this was dated on very
precise archaeoastronomy
of the Kalasasaya Temple.
Basically, if you stand in the
specific spot of the temple--
this is the huge
rectangular temple,
which has the huge monoliths
that form this kind of almost
like a square around it.
If you look towards
the east, you
can actually
observe the movement
of the sun over the
whole solar year, going
from the extreme solstice to
the other extreme solstice,
like the winter to the summer.
And in the middle, the middle
stone would mark the equinox.
Also if you just
look at the site,
you look at the
lichen on the stones,
you look at the way they're
extremely weathered,
the ones that have
been above the surface,
and you look at the
destruction there,
it looks like something
that's been there
for 20,000 or 30,000 years.
It's absolutely incredible.
>> Posnansky said there's
something about these temples
that suggests an even
older period, least of all,
because the semisubterranean
temple nearby was not
semisubterranean at all.
It's only semisubterranean
because the mud that's
been built up around it--
because of the deposits laid
by Lake Titicaca--
made it subterranean.
And for that, requires
over 10,000 years
of flooding and reflooding.
And during my time there,
I've made the observation
that the temples around
the Kalasasaya quadrangle
offset by 3 degrees, which means
that these three temples are
looking at the horizon
in a completely
different period of time.
So let's take Posnansky's
quadrangle measurement,
15,000 BC as you benchmark.
You add 20,000 years to allow
for the tilt of the Earth
to have moved 3 degrees.
That gives you 36,000 years.
And it fits into
the scheme of where
the Tiwanakun culture
and the Egyptian culture
may have been forming
part of the same group
of global civilization
at that particular time.
>> The evidence that Tiwanaku
is aligned with the stars is
a powerful prediluvian clue,
but several other mathematical
messages present an
even stronger connection
to the god's technology.
>> So we talk about
the information encoded
into the temples.
In Tiwanaku, we have
to talk about what
is called the Gate of the Sun.
This is a fascinating
single piece of stone
that is carved
approximately 10 feet tall
and there is a figure in
the center with a face,
and the navel is very present.
When we draw a line from
the navel, at the center,
and we draw that line down
to the base of the door,
we have a perfect
golden triangle.
If you were to draw a line
underneath the rectangular
windows, about midpoint,
and you draw the lines,
you have another
perfect golden triangle.
And if you transpose
the Vitruvian Man
from Leonardo da
Vinci's work, where
you see with his arms
outstretched and his legs,
showing all of the
body proportions
and the Phi ratio proportions
of sacred geometry,
if you were to
superimpose that up
on this particular
monument, what we find
is innumerable
intersection points
between the human
body and the marks
and the sites that
are on this stone.
So clearly we're
looking at architecture
which is extraordinary, but
within the architecture,
we're looking at an
information system that
was left without writing for
those that would understand how
to decode these sacred
proportions that apply
to all life, that apply to us
and apply to our relationship
to time.
The mathematics
that we see encoded
into the Gate of the
Sun, in Tiwanaku,
these are precisely
the mathematics
that we see encoded
into some of the most
ancient and sophisticated
temples remaining in the world
today, from Saqqara in
Egypt to the Giza Plateau.
We see them throughout
Northern Europe.
We see them even in the
sites the Mesoamerican sites
that we find, such as
Chaco Canyon and Caral.
This is a universal language
that transcends words.
It transcends
writing because it's
based upon the universal
principles of the world we
live in and nature, herself.
>> This sacred land, nearly 2
and 1/2 miles above sea level,
holds foundational evidence,
providing links back
to the precision of building
found in ancient Egypt.
Pumapunku, believed to
be a pyramidal structure,
is a site that mostly
remains buried and is
a deeper mystery to
researchers and archaeologists.
Could this potential
pyramid be another clue
that this area was visited and
influenced by prediluvian gods?
What other trails
of evidence did they
leave for us to lead
future generations
to these sacred sites?
>> Pumapunku is really quite
unique when it comes to design,
shape, style, and also
the types of stone,
because we have two
main types of stone.
We have the
sandstone, which comes
from about eight miles away
from a quarry to the south.
This is very rich in
iron so it has these kind
of magnetic qualities.
And the main stone
used there is andesite.
This is a very hard
type of volcanic stone.
And this comes from
Cerro Khapia, which
is a mountain on the
other side of the lake,
and it's around 50 miles away.
And so there's actually a trail
of stones from the quarry,
at that mountain, all
the way, across the lake,
all the way to Tiwanaku.
And these are called the lazy
stones or the tired stones.
It's almost like they've been
dropped there deliberately
by the builders to mark
this ancient sacred route,
bringing the stones from their
sacred birthplace at Cerro
Khapia.
>> At Pumapunku, for
example, the stones were cut
into modular geometric shapes
that remind the use of precise
technological system.
But how did the men of the
time cut such hard stone so
precisely?
So according to experts,
this is possible
only using precise
advanced devices.
It is also remarkable
that the builders
used metal staples to fix the
stones, putting them together.
And I believe this is a further
evidence of a building plan,
very sophisticated.
So the clues of an
advanced technology
that was used to build
Tiwanaku and Pumapunku that
are witness of an ancient
civilization living on Earth
before the great flood.
>> When we leave Pumapunku
and the incredible H blocks
and look around, we find
corresponding examples
in Egypt.
The incredible Osirion, behind
the Temple of Seti at Abydos,
features these massive, or
cyclopean, red granite blocks
that are perfectly
fitted together.
You can hardly slip a razor
in between the joints,
yet there's no mortar.
And it suggests a capability,
a manufacturing capability,
that was known not only at
Pumapunku but also in Egypt
at the same time.
The natural question
that emerges
is, how is it possible that
both of these cultures separated
by oceans had the same type
of advanced machining ability
to work with these stones?
There must have been
communication with them
and it could possibly
be that they are in fact
the same builders at each site.
>> Tiwanaku and Pumapunku both
display very sophisticated
engineering and knowledge.
But the question remains,
who were the builders?
>> The first civilization in
coming to Bolivia and Peru--
all the territory
that I remember
with the name HarinMibu
was the territory
under the power of Mu.
The Mu civilization
was basically
like the keepers of all
this coming from the skies,
in all the Pacific Ocean.
So they were the builders
of the basis for them
to come, to have the
meetings, to have
the trespass of information.
And Tiwanaku was one
of these special spots
where all the energy of the
planet was flowing through.
There was a main difference
between the Mu civilization
and the Atlantean.
The Mu civilization
was much more
connected with the
flow of everything,
much more connected with
the energy of the things.
And the Atlantis civilization
was much more mathematical
and trying to understand
the patterns that
creates everything.
And that's why there are
two types of building there.
The basements that
are from the Mu time--
they didn't make
temples in Mu time.
They just did the platforms.
It was all open.
And then the Atlanteans came and
built temples on the top of it.
The Atlantean civilization
used to build these three
main gates, everywhere, in
every one of their colonies.
Because where the gates
for certain stars,
in certain moments
of the year, that
would open the specific
information from those stars.
So the people, in those temples,
in certain moments of the year,
they would become the stars
through those portals.
The part of Mu in Tiwanaku,
it would be all missing
just a few blocks
on the ground that
hold what was once
the main base of those
who came from the skies.
So nothing really to
be able to be seen.
Everything is much more covered
by the Atlantean civilization
that built the doors,
that built everything.
But you can still see some
of the Mu civilization
in some parts along
the entire Pacific.
>> Do the prediluvian sites
around Lake Titicaca connect
with some of the oldest ancient
civilizations on the planet?
And were they constructed
by the Mu civilization,
only to be rebuilt
by the Atlanteans
before and after
the great flood?
As with most cultures that
rise to the empire level,
the elders and leaders are
highly protected and informed.
Could these powerful
empires that
have occupied these sacred
sites around Titicaca
have had access to legendary
information passed down
from the prediluvian gods?
Did they know the legends of
Zep Tepi, the Anunna, Sumer, Mu,
and Atlantis?
Was discovering these megalithic
stones and sophisticated
foundations of these
temples something
the early elders believed
was their gift from the gods?
Were they searching
for these sacred places
to be used in their
efforts to control?
Or did they believe they had
found their new home to connect
with the ancient knowledge,
designed and built
before the end of the world?
[THEME MUSIC]